---
id: shallow-compare
title: Shallow Compare
permalink: docs/shallow-compare.html
prev: perf.html
next: advanced-performance.html
---

`shallowCompare` is a helper function to achieve the same functionality as `PureRenderMixin` while using ES6 classes with React.

If your React component's render function is "pure" (in other words, it renders the same result given the same props and state), you can use this helper function for a performance boost in some cases.

Example:

```js
var shallowCompare = require('react-addons-shallow-compare');
export class SampleComponent extends React.Component {
  shouldComponentUpdate(nextProps, nextState) {
    return shallowCompare(this, nextProps, nextState);
  }

  render() {
    return <div className={this.props.className}>foo</div>;
  }
}
```

`shallowCompare` performs a shallow equality check on the current `props` and `nextProps` objects as well as the current `state` and `nextState` objects.  
It does this by iterating on the keys of the objects being compared and returning true when the values of a key in each object are not strictly equal.

`shallowCompare` returns `true` if the shallow comparison for props or state fails and therefore the component should update.  
`shallowCompare` returns `false` if the shallow comparison for props and state both pass and therefore the component does not need to update.

> Note:
>
> Do not use ES7-function-bind `::this.functionA` syntax to assign props to components that are intended to be pure. The syntax effectively calls `function.prototype.bind` every time render() gets called in the parent component. Ultimately when doing shallow compare, the `===` operator will always return false when comparing the functions since they do not reference the same function instance, therefore breaking shallowCompare. In short, mixing `::this.functionA` with `shallowCompare` will most likely have **no affect** in terms of performance gain comparing to non-pure components. Pure or not, `render()` method will always get called.  
> 
>Please keep using this.functionA = this.functionA.bind(this); in the constructor methods of the parent component forall pure components.
>
>
