---
title: Why Should You Care About React?
layout: post
author: Pete Hunt
---

There are a lot of JavaScript MVC frameworks out there. Why did we build React
and why would you want to use it?


## React isn't an MVC framework.

It's a library designed for building big UIs. The type where you have lots of
reusable components that are handling events, presenting backend data, and
accepting user input. The type where you have to integrate with legacy code, and
support legacy browsers.

In the traditional MVC pattern, React is used to build the view. React lets you
decide how to manage your data and business logic, be it outside of React
components or within.

## React doesn't use templates.

Traditionally, web application UIs are built using templates written in
templating languages or HTML directives. These templating languages or directives
dictate the full set of abstractions that you are allowed to use to build the user
interface.

But templating languages can be constraining and difficult to use. UI logic is
often just as complicated as backend logic; why use a constrained language to
express it?

Historically, the reason for using templating languages has been to support
WYSIWYG editors. Today, WYSIWYG editors aren't prevalent for large-scale
application development so we consider this a non-issue.

In our experience separating logic and markup does more harm than good. 
Introducing barriers between them usually just creates more friction for
engineers. It's also not a real separation of concerns; **markup and display
logic are intimately tied and are both part of the display layer**. It's a costly
overreaction to the spaghetti code of the past.

## Build modular components in JavaScript instead.

React approaches building user interfaces differently by breaking them down into
smaller, composable and reusable **components**. **Simple, modular components let
the app developer determine the proper separation of concerns within the display
layer using familiar JavaScript idioms**.

You can think of components as simple functions that take in some parameters (one
could call them the model) and return a description of the markup that may contain
other components. To make this easy we've created `React.DOM`, a simple, safe and
efficient way to generate markup from within JavaScript **without string
concatenation or DOM manipulation**. We've also created
[JSX](facebook.github.io/react/docs/syntax.html) in case you prefer the
readability of HTML syntax.

Since React components just take some backing data and generate a description of
the UI, **we think of React as an idempotent, functional library for building UI
components.** Building your app as modular, functional components makes it easy to
maintain and easy to reason about.

By the way, we're not the first JavaScript library to eschew templates.
[Ext JS](http://www.sencha.com/products/extjs/) and [Enyo](http://enyojs.com/)
are two examples of many great frameworks that do this today.

## Reactive updates are dead simple.

React really shines when your data changes over time.

In a traditional JavaScript application, you need to look at what data changed
and imperatively make changes to the DOM to keep it up-to-date. Even AngularJS,
which provides a declarative interface via directives and data binding,
[requires a linking function to manually update DOM nodes](http://docs.angularjs.org/guide/directive#reasonsbehindthecompilelinkseparation).
Remember, React components are flexible and expressive, more like directives
and less like templates in AngularJS.

React takes a different approach.

When your component is first initialized, the `render()` method is called and a
string of static HTML is inserted into the DOM. When your data changes, the
`render()` method is called again. We simply diff the old return value with the
new one to determine the fastest way to update the DOM. **So if only a single
attribute on a single element changes, that's all that React updates**.

We call this process **reconciliation**. Check out
[this jsFiddle](http://jsfiddle.net/fv6RD/3/) for an example of reconciliation
in action.

Reconciliation will usually be faster than handwritten code because React knows
about the entire state of the page and can do cool tricks like batching reads
and writes and picking the fastest subset of DOM mutations to perform.

The way we're able to pull this off is by constructing a very fast, lightweight
representation of the DOM which knows which parts are dirtied and which parts
are clean. **The data returned from `render()` is neither a string nor a DOM
node -- it's a lightweight description of what the DOM should look like** in
terms of HTML tags and other React components.

Because this re-render is so fast (on the order of 1ms for TodoMVC), we don't
need the end user to explicitly specify data bindings. We've found this to be an
easier way to build apps. It's a lot like the early days of the dynamic web.
Back then, you wrote simple presentational code and when your data changed, you
simply refreshed the page. Today, React makes that refresh very fast and
lightweight, and only the parts of markup that need to be changed are changed.

No other framework that we've seen has managed to decouple building UIs without
being coupled with the DOM.

## HTML is just the beginning.

Since React makes very few assumptions about its environment, we can do some
pretty cool things with it:

- Facebook has dynamic charts that render to `<canvas>` instead of HTML.
- Instagram is a "single page" web app built entirely with React and
  `Backbone.Router`. Designers regularly contribute React code with JSX.
- We've built internal prototypes that run React apps in a **web worker** and
  on iOS driving **native views** (no HTML!) via an Objective-C bridge.
- You can run React
  [on the server](http://github.com/petehunt/react-server-rendering)
  for SEO, performance, code sharing and overall flexibility.
- Events behave in a consistent, standards-compliant way in all browsers
  (including IE8) and automatically use
  [event delegation](http://davidwalsh.name/event-delegate).

Head on over to
[facebook.github.io/react](http://facebook.github.io/react) to check
out what we have built. Our documentation is geared towards building
apps with the framework, but if you are interested in the
nuts and bolts
[get in touch](http://facebook.github.io/react/support.html) with us!

Thanks for reading!
